# 2019_Site-specific-potato-npk-model

## Provisional abstract

Statistical modeling is commonly used to relate potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) crop performance to nutrient rates. Determining the optimum rate is challenging due to interactions between genotype, environment, and management. The objective of this study was to explore the capacity of machine learning methodologies to predict economic optimum rates of nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium for potato crops using 273 field experiments conducted from 1970 to 2017 in Québec (Canada). We developed, evaluated and compared predictions from the multilevel Mitscherlich model, k-nearest neighbors, random forest, artificial neuronal networks, and gaussian process after accounting for soil properties, weather indices, seeding rate and the length of the growing season that may impact on tuber yield and quality. The data set was divided into calibration (70%) and test data sets (30%). The machine learning techniques returned similar degrees of precision (R2 = 0.6) that were higher compared to the Mitscherlich model (R2 = 0.4) for tuber marketable yield. The degrees of precision were also similar for tuber size ratios (R2 = 0.6 – 0.7) and specific gravity (R2 = 0.6). Despite similar quality metrics, some disagreements occurred between models for optimum economic rates determination. Response curves from artificial neural networks and the gaussian process were the most appropriate for making inferences. Moreover, due to its ability to develop recommendations within a probabilistic risk-assessment framework, the gaussian process model stands up as the most suitable model to support decisions that minimize the economic risk.
